
Announcing Movietool version 1.2.

This is an improved version of Movietool version 1.1.  Movietool is a display
tool for sequences of Sun rasterfiles, providing "video animation" in a
SunView window.  Movietool may also be used as a multi-rasterfile previewer.

Version 1.2 differs a little from previous ones in that the control panel
is now a separate frame that can be moved around independently of the
animation canvas.  This makes it easier to accomodate large images.

In addition, I have now made Movietool into a "multi-media application",
since I have added the possibility of controlling an attached SCSI CD-ROM 
drive.  Read the file README.CD-ROM for further instructions.

How to obtain movietool:
------------------------
From titan.rice.edu you get the files movietool-1.2.shar, movietool.au.uu,
and possibly movietool.rasters.tar.Z.uu.  These files are also available by
anonymous FTP from oersted.ltf.dth.dk (129.142.66.16) in the ~/pub directory.
Please use titan.rice.edu from the American side of the Atlantic.
If you don't have FTP access to Internet, please use the Rice archive server.

Testing:
--------
There is a compressed tar-file of rasters: movietool.rasters.tar.Z which may
be unpacked by "make rasters" (almost 1 Mbyte in 50 files).  To play this
(monochrome) movie, say "movietool tp*".

To do:
------
The decoding of RT_BYTE_ENCODED images would ideally be performed by a
graphics hardware accelerator such as the GX, reducing CPU and bus load.
However, it seems that presently available GX software (i.e., the XGL library)
will NOT do this.  Sun would have to implement decoding in a future upgrade.
Unfortunately, I have no indication that this has any priority inside SMI.

In addition, it would be great is someone who knows the SPARC assembler
would recode and optimize the module pr_decode.c in order to boost performance.
ANYONE VOLUNTEERING ??

I will convert Movietool to XView once we decide to use that window system.

Author:
-------

        Ole H. Nielsen
        Lab of Applied Physics, Bygn. 307
        Technical University of Denmark, DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark
        E-mail: ohnielse@ltf.dth.dk

