
The directories in this directory contain the source for the VOGL library
and the library hershey which is for manipulating the Hershey font data.

They are as follows:

	docs		contains the documentation such as there is.

	drivers		contains the source to a variety of device drivers,
			currently restricted to: postcript, sun workstation, 
			apollo workstations, X11 (R2, R3 & R4), tektronix 
			(401x), hpgl, dxy, and the ibm pc cards: hercules mono,
			cga, ega, vga and sigma.

	examples	contains some C and FORTRAN programs useful both in
			testing and (hopefully) learning how to use it.
			There are subdirectories xview,xt and sunview showing
			how to use an x toolkit (or sunview) with VOGL.

	hershey		contains the source for the hershey library plus the
			source for generating fonts and the hershey data for
			the occidental and oriental character sets. Note: as
			with VOGL this library is callable in C and FORTRAN.

	src		contains the source for the C VOGL interface, and the 
			source for the FORTRAN interfaces where available.
			
If you have a real SGI machine with GL on it, you can simply compile the
Hershey library and the examples with "make -f Makefile.sgi". Otherwise,
you will have to edit the Makefile to set various options for your machine
and type "make".

VOGL is a device portable graphics library that tries to be Silicon Graphics 
Iris GL compatible. Our intention is that any VOGL program will compile
unchanged on a machine running SGI GL (the examples do). VOGL is based
entirely on our other graphics library VOGLE. While we still regard VOGLE
as our main library (it is, and probably will be for some time to come, the
one that gets the most use around here), we will gratefully accept any bug
fixes or enhancements. As always suggestions are also welcome.

This software may be used for any purpose commercial or otherwise. It is
offered without any guarantee as to its suitability for any purpose or as
to the sanity of its writers. We do ask that the source is passed on to
anyone that requests a copy, and that people who get copies don't go round
claiming they wrote it (that is why this one has a copyright notice in it,
see file COPYRIGHT).

Although VOGL is free we will drink any quantity of Beer you send to us.

Documentation in various forms...
	Dieter Kranzlmueller <dk@gup.uni-linz.ac.at> has created a postscript
version of the VOGL manuals with an index. It is also available from
gondwana.ecr.mu.oz.au in /pub/vogl.ps
	Also, there is a html version that can be reached via
	http://www.iqm.unicamp.br/manuals/vogl.html


Regards,

	Eric H. Echidna

Snail mail correspondance and alcoholic beverages should be directed to:

	The Software Support Programmer
	Department Of Engineering Computer Resources
	Faculty Of Engineering
	University Of Melbourne Vic 3052
	Australia

email to 

	echidna@ecr.mu.OZ.AU
	echidna@gondwana.ecr.mu.OZ.AU

VOGLE/VOGL mailing list:
	vogle@ecr.mu.oz.au
	vogle-request@ecr.mu.oz.au to subscribe.

